Welcome back.
We're getting closer and closer to the end.
Let's talk about access control.
Access control is having restrictions on what authenticated users are allowed to do or not.
So this is something that happens after you're giving authentication.
That is we know the user but what do they have access to see attackers can exploit these flaws to access
unauthorized functionality data and other access points that can see users accounts views sensitive
files maybe even modify user data.
So you want to make sure that the access control or access rights are in check for your project.
Now with access control the main idea is this principle of least privilege you're going to hear this
everywhere.
Always give the least amount of privilege possible give only enough that people can do their work.
And a great example of this is something that we've actually already done.
If you remember in our security service that we've been working on I know it's a little bit messy so
let's just clean it up for now.
We're going to remove this and remember the course that I said we're going to get back to him we're
going to talk about well Corps is very important for security and especially access control.
Let's show you what happens when we don't use course.
So I'm going to comment this out I'm going to save and then go back to our make me secure playground
over here and let's type something I'm typing something and then let's look at the console as I submit.
Oh we get some errors saying that pass access control no access control allow origin.
What does that mean.
Says set request motu.
No course to Fessor resources.
All right.
Core's stands for cross origin resource sharing.
I know all these names don't really make sense of the beginning but let me simplified that.
All it saying is I need to have I don't have access for you to access the server.
You see if we just created servers like this and just left it without cause well then anybody can access
them.
Maybe this server is only meant to be by myself for my special purposes but if I have random people
accessing the server utilizing the machine and using up resources that could cost me a lot of money
and for security reason we don't want to just give access to anybody to to these endpoints.
I mean even just for this entire server may maybe this secret endpoint.
We only want a certain domain or a certain website to actually be able to send secrets.
We don't want bad people to just be able to send secrets.
We do this by adding course and by adding cores I'm saying yeah yeah just let's let's this cross origin
resource sharing happen.
I don't mind at all.
And if I refresh your
and I sense something all right it's working fine that's great but that's not really good.
I mean we want the principle of least privilege that is we want to get the least amount of access to
make our apps work and in our case we don't want to just give access to everybody.
We want to give access to only people that we trust.
So cores in their documentation.
If you go to their NPM package actually has some really really good documentation and code snippets
that you can use.
But let me show you one of them.
If I copy and paste this from their documentation they essentially have something called core's options
and these are just options that we give that we check this wireless.
That is a good list of domains out we're giving access to hit our endpoints in our server and cores
option just has an origin function that checks this wide list and all we need to do is add this core's
options as a parameter.
So now if I save this and go back to my Web site let's refresh and I type something oh no no no no you're
not of those Web sites that we waitlisted we're not gonna let you in.
Awesome.
So let's give the access just to us.
Right now I just have it locally running as you can see on my file but on get help over here which you
have access to as well.
I've put it up on get her pages so I have a nice yourself.
So let's say that we want my I negotiate.
Dodd get hard.
I go to have access so that we can send information.
Well let's open up the console to test the case where we don't have permission.
Yep we get better.
And let's add this to the white list.
All right.
I'm saving this and going back.
Let's refresh just have a clean slate.
I'm going to type something.
Boom we have access.
No issues here.
You've actually received.
Look at that.
We've actually received this user input.
Very very cool.
Now this is one principle in access control but it can apply to anything to administrator privileges
to database access to anything.
The main idea is this one line principle of least privilege.
Never give more privilege than you need to only just the right amount.
So that way we give less attack points to bad people.
All right.
That's it for now.
See you in the next one by.